  I will be submitting a web-based game that is essentially the classic board game “Guess Who?” (sic) played with Instagram profile pictures instead of generic, made up faces.

  “Guess Who?” is played by two people who both have a collection of cards, where each card has a distinct face and both players’ sets of cards are the same.  At the start of the game, each player chooses one face card that his opponent must guess the identity of in order to win the game.  Then players take turns asking the each other questions about the identity of the other’s chosen face card (eg “Is the person on the card a redhead?” “Is the person a man?”)  The players use the answers to these questions to deduce the identity of the other player’s chosen card. (Usually players utilize their own face cards to eliminate “suspects” by turning cards that cannot be the chosen card face-down.) Play continues until one player guesses the other player’s chosen card correctly, thus winning the game.

  The “cards” used in my Instagram-oriented version will be the profile pictures of Instagram users that both players follow.  Users will have to log in through Instagram so I can access Instagram’s API as well as the players’ follower information. 

  In order to encourage honesty, at the end of the game the sequence of questions and answers is shown alongside the picture of the opposing player’s chosen card.  These questions can be referenced in order to determine whether the opposing player was being honest with his responses or not.  I may have players rate the “honesty” of his opponent at the end of each game in order to aggregate these ratings into a user’s “honesty” score.  This way, users can avoid matches with dishonest players.

  Hopefully I will have time to implement an invitation system where players can choose who they want to play with (assuming that they follow each other and there are enough accounts that they are mutually following.)  I may also implement an option to play with only the profile pictures of “verified” accounts (celebrities) or only the profile pictures of non-verified accounts. I could also let the users play matches using profile pictures of accounts that have an amount of followers that is within a user-specified range.

Technologies:
Node.js and NPM modules
jQuery
Socket.io
Instagram API
Probably Bootstrap
